# Monte Carlo Simulations Projects
## 1. Forecasting stock prices
## 2. Predicting company gross profit

## What Is a Monte Carlo Simulation?
Monte Carlo simulations are used to model the probability of different outcomes in a process that cannot easily be predicted due to the intervention of random variables. It is a technique used to understand the impact of risk and uncertainty in prediction and forecasting models.

A Monte Carlo simulation can be used to tackle a range of problems in virtually every field such as finance, engineering, supply chain, and science. It is also referred to as a multiple probability simulation.

## Monte Carlo Simulation Method
The basis of a Monte Carlo simulation is that the probability of varying outcomes cannot be determined because of random variable interference. Therefore, a Monte Carlo simulation focuses on constantly repeating random samples to achieve certain results.

A Monte Carlo simulation takes the variable that has uncertainty and assigns it a random value. The model is then run and a result is provided. This process is repeated again and again while assigning the variable in question with many different values. Once the simulation is complete, the results are averaged together to provide an estimate.

## Calculating a Monte Carlo Simulation 
(We will follow the approach from forecasting stock prices, similar approach can be used to predict company gross profit)

One way to employ a Monte Carlo simulation is to model possible movements of asset prices. There are two components to asset prices movement: 

(i) drift, which is a constant directional movement

(ii) a random input, which represents market volatility

By analyzing historical price data, we can determine the drift, standard deviation, variance, and average price movement of a security. These are the building blocks of a Monte Carlo simulation.

To project one possible price trajectory, use the historical price data to generate a series of periodic daily returns using the natural logarithm (note that this equation differs from the usual percentage change formula):

### Periodic Daily Return = ln(Previous Day’s Price / Day’s Price)

### Drift = Average Daily Return − Variance / 2

Next obtain a random input:

### Random Value = σ × Z(RAND(0,1))
Z = no of standard deviations away from mean

The equation for the following day's price is:
### Next Day’s Price = Today’s Price × e^(Drift+Random Value)

The frequencies of different outcomes generated by this simulation will form a normal distribution, that is, a bell curve. The most likely return is in the middle of the curve, meaning there is an equal chance that the actual return will be higher or lower than that value.
